The purpose of this document is to summarize the findings and questions that arose during my EDA.


Questions:
1. How does activity and inactivity effect gameplay? 
Does inactivity effect lower ranked players more than higher ranked players?
2. Model the distribution of the elo rating across the unique players or across time?




Findings:
1. moves column will need to be manipulated into an array or dictionary
2. Elo rating system - theoretical mean of 1500 with a standard deviation of 200
3. Create skill groups - beginner, novice, and experts - maybe more buckets?
4. Use novice group as control group? Investigate memory, problem solving, 
decision making, pattern recognition, and object recognition.
5. Performance of groups to other groups when encountering the Einstellung effect


Cleaning:
1. Remove duplicate ids
df_1 = df.drop_duplicates(subset = ['id'])
2. Create list of moves
df.moves = df.moves.apply(lambda x: x.split(' '))
3. Create game category (rapid, blitz, bullet)
4. Create rating category

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo_rating_system


Plan for Tuesday:
1. win percentage - done
2. aggregate by opening - done
3. aggregate by first 5 moves - not done
4. think of 3-5 hypothesis tests that i could do (focus on 2-3) - done
5. 1 visualization of the chess board - final piece placement or openings
6. Hypo - correlation between 1st and 2nd move between rating categories

Plan for Wednesday:
1. Establish hypotheses
2. Create cat code table to run corr
3. Visualization of chess board


Hypo 1 : Chess Fundamentals
Question: Does the first mover advantage apply to players of different ranking categories?
H0 = First mover advantage applies to all rankings equally
Ha = First mover advantage does differ between groups
Test:
1. compare white win rates across ranking categories
To do:
1. create groups for players - done - used FIDE rating

Hypo 2: Chess Fundamentals
Question: Does ranking accurately depict skill across ranking groups?
H0 = Player ranking differential accurately depicts skill across groups
Ha = Ranking differential does not accurately depict outcome.
Test:
1. compare ranking differential to win / loss between groups
To do:
1. create ranking differential column - done

Hypo 3: Psychology
Question: Do lower ranked players resign earlier than higher ranked players?
H0 = Players resign at the same rate
Ha = Players resign at different rates across groups
To do:

Hypo 4: Chess Fundamentals
Question: Do all squares matter? 
H0 = All squares are of equal importance to control
Ha = Some squares are more important to control than others
To do:

Hypo 5: Chess Fundamentals
Question: Which turn is the most important in the game?
H0 = All turns carry equal importance
Ha = There are one or more turns that disproportionately affect the outcome of the game.